
  Swetest computes a complete set of geocentric planetary positions,
  for a given date or a sequence of dates.
  Input can either be a date or an absolute julian day number.
  0:00 (midnight).
  With the proper options, swetest can be used to output a printed
  ephemeris and transfer the data into other programs like spreadsheets
  for graphical display.
  Version: $Header: /home/dieter/sweph/RCS/swetest.c,v 1.74 2008/06/16 10:07:20 dieter Exp $


  Command line options:
        -ay..   ayanamsa, with number of method, e.g. ay0 for Fagan/Bradley
        -pSEQ   planet sequence to be computed.
                See the letter coding below.
        -nN     output data for N consecutive days; if no -n option
                is given, the default is 1. If the option -n without a
                number is given, the default is 20.
        -sN     timestep N days, default 1. This option is only meaningful
                when combined with option -n.
        -edirPATH change the directory of the ephemeris files
        -dX     differential ephemeris: print differential ephemeris between
                body X and each body in list given by -p
                example: -p2 -d0 -fJl -n366 -b1.1.1992 prints the longitude
                distance between SUN (planet 0) and MERCURY (planet 2)
                for a full year starting at 1 Jan 1992.
        -DX     midpoint ephemeris, works the same way as the differential
                mode -d described above, but outputs the midpoint position.
        -hel    compute heliocentric positions
        -bary   compute barycentric positions (bar. earth instead of node)
        -sid..    sidereal, with number of method; 'sid0' for Fagan/Bradley
        -sidt0..  sidereal, projection on ecliptic of t0
        -sidsp..  sidereal, projection on solar system plane
        -topo[long,lat,elev]
                topocentric positions. The longitude, latitude (degrees with
                DECIMAL fraction) and elevation (meters) can be given, with
                commas separated, + for east and north. If none are given,
                Z?rich is used: 8.55,47.38,400
        -house[long,lat,hsys]
                include house cusps. The longitude, latitude (degrees with
                DECIMAL fraction) and house system letter can be given, with
                commas separated, + for east and north. If none are given,
                Greenwich UK and Placidus is used: 0.00,51.50,p.
                The output lists 12 house cusps, Asc, MC, ARMC and Vertex.
                Houses can only be computed if option -ut is given.
        -hsy[hsys]	
                house system to be used (for house positions of planets)
                for long, lat, hsys, see -house
        -geopos[long,lat,elev]
                Geographic position. Can be used for azimuth and altitude
                or topocentric or house cups calculations.
                The longitude, latitude (degrees with DECIMAL fraction)
                and elevation (meters) can be given, with
                commas separated, + for east and north. If none are given,
                ZÅrich is used: 8.55,47.38,400
        -head   don't print the header before the planet data. This option
                is useful when you want to paste the output into a
                spreadsheet for displaying graphical ephemeris.
        -bDATE  begin date; e.g. -b1.1.1992 if
                Note: the date format is day month year (European style).
        -bj...  begin date as an absolute Julian day number; e.g. -bj2415020.5
        -j...   same as -bj
        -fSEQ   use SEQ as format sequence for the output columns;
                default is PLBRS.
        -tHH.MMSS  input time (ephemeris time)
        -ut     input date is universal time
        -utHH:MM:SS input time
        -utHH.MMSS input time
        -eswe   swiss ephemeris
        -emos   moshier ephemeris
        -true   true positions
        -noaberr        no aberration
        -nodefl no gravitational light deflection
        -j2000  no precession (i.e. J2000 positions)
        -icrs   ICRS (positions in the Internat. Celestial Reference System)
        -nonut  no nutation
        -speed  high precision speed
        -speed3 'low' precision speed from 3 positions
                do not use this option. -speed parameter is faster and preciser
        -roundsec       round to seconds
        -roundmin       round to minutes

        -?, -h  display whole info
        -hcmd   display commands
        -hplan  display planet numbers
        -hform  display format characters
        -hdate  display input date format
        +head   header before every step (with -s..)
        -gPPP   use PPP as gap between output columns; default is a single
                blank.  -g followed by white space sets the
                gap to the TAB character; which is useful for data entry
                into spreadsheets.
        -iXX    force iflag to value XX
        -hexamp  display examples
         -solecl solar eclipse
                 output 1st line:
                   eclipse date,
                   time of maximum,
                   core shadow width (negative with total eclipses),
                   fraction of solar diameter that is eclipsed
                 output 2nd line:
                   start and end times for partial and total phase
                 output 3rd line:
                   geographical longitude and latitude of maximum eclipse,
                   totality duration at that geographical position,
                 output with -local, see below.
         -occult occultation of planet or star by the moon. Use -p to
                 specify planet (-pf -xfAldebaran for stars)
                 output format same as with -solecl
         -lunecl lunar eclipse
                 output 1st line:
                   eclipse date,
                   time of maximum,
                 output 2nd line:
                   6 contacts for start and end of penumbral, partial, and
                   total phase
         -local  only with -solecl or -occult, if the next event of this
                 kind is wanted for a given geogr. position.
                 Use -geopos[long,lat,elev] to specify that position.
                 If -local is not set, the program
                 searches for the next event anywhere on earth.
                 output 1st line:
                   eclipse date,
                   time of maximum,
                   fraction of solar diameter that is eclipsed
                 output 2nd line:
                   local eclipse duration,
                   local four contacts,
         -total  total eclipse (only with -solecl, -lunecl)
         -partial partial eclipse (only with -solecl, -lunecl)
         -annular annular eclipse (only with -solecl)
         -anntot annular-total eclipse (only with -solecl)
         -penumbral penumbral lunar eclipse (only with -lunecl)
         -central central eclipse (only with -solecl, nonlocal)
         -noncentral non-central eclipse (only with -solecl, nonlocal)
         -rise   rising and setting of a planet or star.
                 Use -geopos[long,lat,elev] to specify geographical position.
         -norefrac   neglect refraction (with option -rise)
         -disccenter find rise of disc center (with option -rise)
         -hindu      hindu version of sunrise (with option -rise)
         -metr   southern and northern meridian transit of a planet of star
                 Use -geopos[long,lat,elev] to specify geographical position.
         -bwd    search backward

  Planet selection letters:
        d (default) main factors 0123456789mtABCcg
        p main factors as above, plus main asteroids DEFGHI
        h ficticious factors J..X
        a all factors
        (the letters above can only appear as a single letter)

        0 Sun (character zero)
        1 Moon (character 1)
        2 Mercury
        ....
        9 Pluto
        m mean lunar node
        t true lunar node
        n nutation
        q delta t
        o obliquity of ecliptic
        A mean lunar apogee (Lilith, Black Moon)
        B osculating lunar apogee
        c intp. lunar apogee
        g intp. lunar perigee
        C Earth
        D Chiron
        E Pholus
        F Ceres
        G Pallas
        H Juno
        I Vesta
        J Cupido
        K Hades
        L Zeus
        M Kronos
        N Apollon
        O Admetos
        P Vulkanus
        Q Poseidon
        R Isis (Sevin)
        S Nibiru (Sitchin)
        T Harrington
        U Leverrier's Neptune
        V Adams' Neptune
        W Lowell's Pluto
        X Pickering's Pluto
        Y Vulcan
        Z White Moon
        w Waldemath's dark Moon
        f fixed star, with name or number given in -xf option
        z hypothetical body, with number given in -xz
        s minor planet, with MPC number given in -xs
        e print a line of labels
          

  Output format SEQ letters:
  In the standard setting five columns of coordinates are printed with
  the default format PLBRS. You can change the default by providing an
  option like -fCCCC where CCCC is your sequence of columns.
  The coding of the sequence is like this:
        y year
        Y year.fraction_of_year
        p planet index
        P planet name
        J absolute juldate
        T date formatted like 23.02.1992
        t date formatted like 920223 for 1992 february 23
        L longitude in degree ddd∞mm'ss"
        l longitude decimal
        Z longitude ddsignmm'ss"
        S speed in longitude in degree ddd:mm:ss per day
        SS speed for all values specified in fmt
        s speed longitude decimal (degrees/day)
        ss speed for all values specified in fmt
        B latitude degree
        b latitude decimal
        R distance decimal in AU
        r distance decimal in AU, Moon in seconds parallax
          relative distance (1000=nearest, 0=furthest)
        A Rectascension in hh:mm:ss
        a rectascension hours decimal
        D Declination degree
        d declination decimal
        I Azimuth degree
        i Azimuth decimal
        H Height degree
        h Height decimal
        K Height (with refraction) degree
        k Height (with refraction) decimal
        G house position in degrees
        g house position in degrees decimal
        j house number 1.0 - 12.99999
        X x-, y-, and z-coordinates ecliptical
        x x-, y-, and z-coordinates equatorial
        U unit vector ecliptical
        u unit vector equatorial
        Q l, b, r, dl, db, dr, a, d, da, dd
        n mean values: ascending, descending node (Me - Ne) decimal degree
        N osculating values: ascending, descending node
        f mean values for longitude: perihel, aphel, second focal point
        F oscul. values for longitude: perihel, aphel, second focal point
        + phase angle
        - phase
        * elongation
        / apparent diameter of disc (without refraction)
        = magnitude

  Date entry:
  In the interactive mode, when you are asked for a start date,
  you can enter data in one of the following formats:

        1.2.1991        three integers separated by a nondigit character for
                        day month year. Dates are interpreted as Gregorian
                        after 4.10.1582 and as Julian Calender before.
                        Time is always set to midnight.
                        If the three letters jul are appended to the date,
                        the Julian calendar is used even after 1582.
                        If the four letters greg are appended to the date,
                        the Gregorian calendar is used even before 1582.

        j2400123.67     the letter j followed by a real number, for
                        the absolute Julian daynumber of the start date.
                        Fraction .5 indicates midnight, fraction .0
                        indicates noon, other times of the day can be
                        chosen accordingly.

        <RETURN>        repeat the last entry
        
        .               stop the program

        +20             advance the date by 20 days

        -10             go back in time 10 days


  Examples:

    java Swetest -p2 -b1.12.1900 -n15 -s2
	ephemeris of Mercury (-p2) starting on 1 Dec 1900,
	15 positions (-n15) in two-day steps (-s2)

    java Swetest -p2 -b1.12.1900 -n15 -s2 -fTZ -roundsec -g, -head
	same, but output format =  date and zodiacal position (-fTZ),
	separated by comma (-g,) and rounded to seconds (-roundsec),
	without header (-head).

    java Swetest -ps -xs433 -b1.12.1900
	position of asteroid 433 Eros (-ps -xs433)

    java Swetest -pf -xfAldebaran -b1.1.2000
     position of fixed star Aldebaran

    java Swetest -p1 -d0 -b1.12.1900 -n10 -fPTl -head
	angular distance of moon (-p1) from sun (-d0) for 10
	consecutive days (-n10).

    java Swetest -p6 -DD -b1.12.1900 -n100 -s5 -fPTZ -head -roundmin
     Midpoints between Saturn (-p6) and Chiron (-DD) for 100
     consecutive steps (-n100) with 5-day steps (-s5) with
     longitude in degree-sign format (-f..Z) rounded to minutes (-roundmin)

    java Swetest -b5.1.2002 -p -house12.05,49.50,k -ut12:30
        Koch houses for a location in Germany at a given date and time
